# ConcurrentReacHippoEV
code and data repository for "Concurrent feature-specific reactivation within the hippocampus and neocortex facilitates episodic memory retrieval"

## Scripts

Contains three R scripts and the required data to run the scripts independently, i.e. the reactivation data can be generated by running FeatSpecifReac.R or ItemSpecifReac.R, but the pre-generated data (ReacRankRecall.RData) is used in ReacCorAcc.R.

The scripts are as follows (see the scripts for more detail):

FeatSpecifReac.R - code for generating feature-specific neural reactivation values

ItemSpecifReac.R - code for generating image-specific neural reactivation values

ReacCorAcc.R - code for the results depicted in Figures 2-4

## Data

<b>DNN Feature activiations:</b>

DNN\<feature level\>ImMat(3X3).mat - matlab matrix data file containing features (columns) extracted from VGG16 for all 180 study images (rows). 'feature level' refers to the layer of VGG16 that the features were drawn from. All layers except the fully connected layer were downsampled to 3x3.

DNN\<feature level\>Mix1Mat(3X3)HR.mat - matlab matrix data file containing hemodynamically smoothed features (columns) for all time-points (rows) extracted from VGG16 for movie 1.

DNN\<feature level\>Mix2Mat(3X3)HR.mat - matlab matrix data file containing hemodynamically smoothed features (columns) for all time-points (rows) extracted from VGG16 for movie 2.

<b>Brain (vertex) activity:</b>

ROINamesDiv.RData - R data file containing a list of FreeSurfer ROI groupings. ROI groupings: 1 = 'LowOc' (lower occipital), 2 = 'HighOc' (higher occipital), 3 = 'Tmprl' (temporal), 4 = 'Prtl' (parietal), 5 = 'Front' (frontal), 6 = 'Other', 7 = 'Hippo' (hippocampus).

roiNodeNames\<ROI\>.RData - R data file containing the ROI each vertex belongs to. Data in the form of lists (names = subjects) of vectors containing roi names. 

movie\<ROI\>.RData - R data file containing vertex activity for movie 1 (movie2VntrDatSep) and movie 2 (movie3VntrDatSep). Data in the form of lists (names = subjects) of matrices (row = time point, column = brain vertex).

nback\<ROI\>.RData - R data file containing vertex activity for the n-back/encoding task. Data in the form of lists (names = subjects) of matrices (row = trial, column = brain vertex).

recogVis\<ROI\>.RData - R data file containing vertex activity for the recall task. Data in the form of lists (names = subjects) of matrices (row = image (in alphabetical order), column = brain vertex).

recogPrb\<ROI\>.RData - R data file containing vertex activity for the old/new recognition task. Data in the form of lists (names = subjects) of matrices (row = image (in alphabetical order), column = brain vertex).

<b>Image names:</b>

imageNames.RData - R data file containing all image file names (nBackImagesAll), the image for each n-back/encoding trial (nBackImages), the cued recall images for each image and time point sorted alphabetically (recogImages), and the recognition probe images for each image and time point sorted alphabetically (recogProbes). There are 16 recall/recognition time points, so each image name is repeated 16 times in recogImages and recogProbes.

<b>FreeSurfer ROI names:</b>

ROINamesNum.RData - R data file containing a vector of FreeSurfer numerical ROI names (only left hemisphere because it was used to represent bilateral ROIs)

ROINamesFreeSurf.RData - R data file containing a vector mapping between FreeSurfer numerical and descriptive ROI names.

<b>Reactivation (rank) and behavioral data:</b>

ReacRankRecall.RData - R data file containing the recall reactivation and behavioral data in data.frame format. Trials for each subject are along the rows (sorted alphabetically by cue label, not in temporal order). Columns: see ReacCorAcc.R for a detailed description of the columns.

<b>Pre-generated models/bootstrap (because can take >1 hour to run):</b>

lmerModel_AccCORReac_HipAntPst_InterNewAcc.RData - R data file containing the feature-specific model used for Figure 2.

lmerModel_AccCORReac_HipAntPst_InterNewAcc_Boot.RData - R data file containing the bootstrap samples of the feature-specific model used for Figure 2.

lmerModel_AccCORReacItem_HipAntPst_InterNewAcc.RData - R data file containing the item-specific model used for Figure 2.

lmerModel_AccCORReacItem_HipAntPst_InterNewAcc_Boot.RData - R data file containing the bootstrap samples of the item-specific model used for Figure 2.

lmModel_LureAccCORReac_HipAntPst_Between.RData - R data file containing the feature-specific model used for Figure 3.

lmModel_LureAccCORReac_HipAntPst_Between_Boot.RData - R data file containing the bootstrap samples of the feature-specific model used for Figure 3.

lmModel_LureAccCORReacItem_HipAntPst_Between.RData - R data file containing the item-specific model used for Figure 3.

lmModel_LureAccCORReacItem_HipAntPst_Between_Boot.RData - R data file containing the bootstrap samples of the item-specific model used for Figure 3.

lmerModel_AccCORReac_HipAntPst_InterNewAcc_InterEV.RData - R data file containing the feature-specific model used for Figure 4.

lmerModel_AccCORReac_HipAntPst_InterNewAcc_InterEV_Boot.RData - R data file containing the bootstrap samples of the feature-specific model used for Figure 4.
